---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "clouding_firewall Data Source - terraform-provider-clouding"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Firewall data source retrieves specific information about a Firewall and its associated rules.
---

# clouding_firewall (Data Source)

Firewall data source retrieves specific information about a Firewall and its associated rules.

## Example Usage

```terraform
###################################
# Data source: clouding_firewall  #
###################################

data "clouding_firewall" "example" {
  id = "L1qX02j9agnW9ary"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) A unique string identifier used to reference a Firewall.

### Read-Only

- `attachments` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--attachments))
- `description` (String) The Firewall description. The description is displayed in the UI.
- `name` (String) The Firewall display name. This name is displayed in the UI.
- `rules` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--rules))

<a id="nestedatt--attachments"></a>
### Nested Schema for `attachments`

Read-Only:

- `firewall_id` (String) A unique string identifier used to reference a Firewall.
- `firewall_name` (String) The Firewall display name. This name is displayed in the UI.


<a id="nestedatt--rules"></a>
### Nested Schema for `rules`

Read-Only:

- `description` (String) The Firewall rule description. The description is displayed in the UI.
- `enable` (Boolean) The Firewall rule enable. The enable is displayed in the UI.
- `id` (String) A unique string identifier used to reference a Firewall rule.
- `port_range_max` (Number) The Firewall rule port range max. The port range max is displayed in the UI.
- `port_range_min` (Number) The Firewall rule port range min. The port range min is displayed in the UI.
- `protocol` (String) The Firewall rule protocol. The protocol is displayed in the UI.
- `source_ip` (String) The Firewall rule source IP. The source IP is displayed in the UI.
