---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "clouding_image Data Source - terraform-provider-clouding"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Image data source allows retrieving a specific image and its access methods by providing the image's unique identifier.
---

# clouding_image (Data Source)

Image data source allows retrieving a specific image and its access methods by providing the image's unique identifier.

## Example Usage

```terraform
###############################
# Data source: clouding_image #
###############################

data "clouding_image" "example" {
  id = "wLQbN5nvg829JaeZ"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) A unique string identifier used to reference a Image.

### Read-Only

- `access_methods` (Attributes) The available access methods for the `accessConfiguration` when [creating a new server](https://api.clouding.io/docs#tag/Servers/operation/CreateServer) from this image. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--access_methods))
- `billing_unit` (String) The unit used to bill the image, e.g. "Core" means price per server virtual core.
- `minimum_size_gb` (Number) The minimum size in gigabytes of the image.
- `name` (String) The name of the image.
- `price_per_hour` (Number) The price per hour of the image.
- `price_per_month_approx` (Number) The approximate price per month of the image.

<a id="nestedatt--access_methods"></a>
### Nested Schema for `access_methods`

Read-Only:

- `password` (String) Enum: ***not-supported*** ***optional*** ***required***- ***not-supported:*** Some images may not support password authentication, in which case you'll need to use an SSH key to access the machine.- ***optional:*** Some images may allow you to use either password authentication or SSH key authentication.- ***required:*** Some images may require a password for authentication. In this case, you'll need to provide a password when creating the server.
- `ssh_key` (String) Enum: ***not-supported*** ***optional*** ***required*** ***required-with-private-key***This is a secure way to access your server over the network. An SSH key pair consists of a public key and a private key. When the client attempts to connect to the server, the server checks if the public key matches the private key, and if so, grants access.- ***not-supported:*** SSH key is not supported for this image.- ***optional:*** Some images may support both SSH key authentication and password authentication. In this case, you can choose to use either method.- ***required:*** Some images may require SSH key authentication. This means you'll need to create an SSH key pair and provide its unique identifier when creating the server. You'll also need to have the private key stored on your client machine to access the virtual machine.- ***required-with-private-key:*** Some images may require that you use an SSH key with the private key stored in the Clouding servers. In this case, you'll need to either generate an SSH key or provide the private key when creating it.
