---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "clouding_snapshot Data Source - terraform-provider-clouding"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Snapshot data source retrieves information about a specific Snapshot based on its unique identifier.
---

# clouding_snapshot (Data Source)

Snapshot data source retrieves information about a specific Snapshot based on its unique identifier.

## Example Usage

```terraform
###################################
# Data source: clouding_snapshot  #
###################################

data "clouding_snapshot" "example" {
  id = "L1qX02j9agnW9ary"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) A unique string identifier used to reference a Snapshot.

### Read-Only

- `cost` (Attributes) The cost of the Snapshot. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--cost))
- `created_at` (String) The date and time when the Snapshot was created.
- `description` (String) The description of the Snapshot.
- `image` (Attributes) The image that the Snapshot was created from. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--image))
- `name` (String) The name of the Snapshot.
- `size_gb` (Number) The size of the Snapshot in gigabytes. The size of the snapshot restricts the minimum volume size of a server created from the snapshot.
- `source_server_name` (String) The name of the server that the Snapshot was created from.

<a id="nestedatt--cost"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cost`

Read-Only:

- `price_per_hour` (Number) The price per hour of the Snapshot.
- `price_per_month_approx` (Number) The approximate price per month of the Snapshot.


<a id="nestedatt--image"></a>
### Nested Schema for `image`

Read-Only:

- `access_methods` (Attributes) The access methods of the Image. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--image--access_methods))
- `id` (String) A unique string identifier used to reference an Image.
- `name` (String) The name of the Image.

<a id="nestedatt--image--access_methods"></a>
### Nested Schema for `image.access_methods`

Read-Only:

- `password` (String) Enum: "not-supported" "optional" "required" "required-with-private-key"This is a simpler way to access your server by entering a password.
- `ssh_key` (String) Enum: "not-supported" "optional" "required" "required-with-private-key"This is a secure way to access your server over the network. An SSH key pair consists of a public key and a private key.When the client attempts to connect to the server, the server checks if the public key matches the private key, and if so, grants access.
