---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "clouding_server Resource - terraform-provider-clouding"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Provides a range of operations for managing Clouding virtual machines.
---

# clouding_server (Resource)

Provides a range of operations for managing Clouding virtual machines.

## Example Usage

```terraform
#############################
# Resource: clouding_server #
#############################

##### Before creating a server, you can create a firewall and retrieve an image value from the data source. 

### Firewall
resource "clouding_firewall" "example" {
  name        = "example test"
  description = "Firewall example"
}

resource "clouding_firewall_rule" "example_rule" {
  firewall_id    = clouding_firewall.example.id
  source_ip      = "0.0.0.0/0"
  protocol       = "tcp"
  description    = "Allow http connections"
  port_range_min = 80
  port_range_max = 80
}

### Image
data "clouding_image" "example" {
  id = "wLQbN5nvg829JaeZ"
}


### Server
resource "clouding_server" "example" {
  name        = "webserver"
  hostname    = "webserver.example.com"
  flavor_id   = "0.5x1"
  firewall_id = clouding_firewall.example.id

  access_configuration = {
    password      = "password123"
    save_password = true
  }

  volume = {
    source = "image"
    id     = data.clouding_image.example.id
    ssd_gb = 5
  }

  backup_preference = {
    slots     = 3
    frequency = "ThreeDays"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `access_configuration` (Attributes) When creating a server, you need to choose a method to access it. The two options are SSH key authentication and password authentication. The availability and requirements of these methods depend on the accessMethods of the volume's source. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--access_configuration))
- `firewall_id` (String) The identifier of the initial firewall that will be attached to the server. Firewalls can be attached or detached after server creation.
- `flavor_id` (String) The identifier of the desired flavor size. Flavors are pre-defined configurations of CPU and RAM. The list of available flavors can be retrieved from the [flavor sizes](https://api.clouding.io/docs#tag/Sizes/operation/ListAllFlavors) endpoint.
- `hostname` (String) The hostname of the server. It should be a valid hostname according to the [domain names RFC](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1035). This value cannot be changed.
- `name` (String) The name of the server.
- `volume` (Attributes) The volume configuration and origin. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--volume))

### Optional

- `backup_preference` (Attributes) The backup strategy of the server. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--backup_preference))
- `enable_private_network` (Boolean) Default: falseIf true, the server will have second network interface connected to the private network of the user that is isolated from the public internet.
- `enable_strict_antiddos_filtering` (Boolean) Default: falseIf true, [strict Anti-DDoS filtering](https://help.clouding.io/hc/en-us/articles/6310749915036) will be enabled, which may impact some network protocols. It is only recommended for server under constant DDoS attacks. If your server is not under constant attacks, we recommend leaving this option disabled and rely on our standard Anti-DDoS filtering which is always enabled. This feature cannot be disabled after the server is created.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))
- `user_data` (String) Default: nullCan be used to specify scripts/commands that the server will execute during the first startup. [More information](https://help.clouding.io/hc/en-us/articles/4801240126620)

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) A unique string identifier used to reference a Server.
- `last_updated` (String) The datetime of the last update.

<a id="nestedatt--access_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `access_configuration`

Optional:

- `password` (String) Default: nullThe password that will be used by the new server.The availability of this method depends on the accessMethods of the volume's source.
- `save_password` (Boolean) Default: falseIf true, the password will be stored in our database.This will enable password retrieval. If the password is not saved, you will not be able to retrieve your password. You will still be able to change the password.
- `ssh_key_id` (String) The unique identifier of the SSH key. The availability of this method depends on the accessMethods of the volume's source.


<a id="nestedatt--volume"></a>
### Nested Schema for `volume`

Required:

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the volume's source. This property is used in conjunction with the sourceand it can be from an [image](https://api.clouding.io/docs#tag/Images/operation/ListAllImages), [backup](https://api.clouding.io/docs#tag/Backups/operation/ListAllBackups), [snapshot](https://api.clouding.io/docs#tag/Snapshots/operation/ListAllSnapshots) or [server](https://api.clouding.io/docs#tag/Servers/operation/ListAllServers).
- `source` (String) Enum: ```image``` ```backup``` ```snapshot``` ```server``` This property is used to specify the source of the volume of the new server.
- `ssd_gb` (Number) Minimum: >=5The size of the volume in gigabytes. The minimum size depends on the source. For example if the source is snapshot and the snapshot is 20 gigabytes, this property should be set to minimum 20 gigabytes. The list of available volume sizes can be retrieved from the volume sizes endpoint.


<a id="nestedatt--backup_preference"></a>
### Nested Schema for `backup_preference`

Optional:

- `frequency` (String) Enum: ```OneDay``` ```TwoDays``` ```ThreeDays``` ```FourDays``` ```FiveDays``` ```SixDays``` ```OneWeek``` How often backups will be created.
- `slots` (Number) [2..30]The number of backups that will be kept.


<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
